1.Explain in brief what is node js?
Node. js (Node) is an open source development platform for executing JavaScript code server-side. 
Node is useful for developing applications that require a persistent connection from the browser to the server 
and is often used for real-time applications such as chat, news feeds and web push notifications.

2)How is node js non-blocking?
A non-blocking call in JavaScript provides a callback function that is to be called when the operation is complete.
 Node. js internally uses operating system level polling in combination with worker threads for operations that do not support polling. 
 Node then translates these mechanisms into JavaScript callbacks.

 3)What is throughput?

4)How is Node js having high IO throughput?
In its most basic form Node. js is best suited for this type of computing. 
All I/O in Node. js is non-blocking and it allows other requests to be served while waiting for a particular read or write to complete.

5)What are CPU intensive tasks?
They are complex user actions that eat up more RAM. A few of such processes can shut down your server entirely. 
Naturally, you want to make sure that your app or website is 'smart' enough to handle different kinds of tasks, for each individual user request.

6)How can you end up blocking your main thread in node.js?
The Main Thread is where the browser does most of the work needed to display a page. If we keep the Main Thread blocked, it can't perform its crucial tasks. 
This leads to slow load times, unresponsive pages, and a bad user experience.

7)What is the event loop?
A JavaScript runtime uses a message queue, which is a list of messages to be processed. Each message has an associated function that gets called to handle the message.
 At some point during the event loop, the runtime starts handling the messages on the queue, starting with the oldest one.

 8)What are different phases in event loop?
The Event Loop contains six main phases: 
timers, 
I/O callbacks, 
preparation / idle phase, 
I/O polling, 
setImmediate() callbacks execution, and 
close events callbacks.

9)What is process.tick?
Every time the event loop takes a full trip, we call it a tick.
 When we pass a function to process.nextTick() , we instruct the engine to invoke this function at the end of the current operation, 
 before the next event loop tick starts: JS copy.

 10)When can process.tick starve your event loop?


11)What is the difference between setTimeout and setInterval?
setTimeout allows us to run a function once after the interval of time. 
setInterval allows us to run a function repeatedly, starting after the interval of time, then repeating continuously at that interval


12)How can you make a network request with http module from the backend?
The most common HTTP request methods have a call shortcut (such as http. get and http. post), but you can make any type of HTTP request by setting the call field to http. 
request and specifying the type of request using the method field.

13)How can you create your own events?
A custom event can be created using the CustomEvent constructor: 
const myEvent = new CustomEvent("myevent", { detail: {}, bubbles: true, cancelable: true, composed: false, });
 As shown above, creating a custom event via the CustomEvent constructor is similar to creating one using the Event constructor.

 14)What are clusters?
Node. js runs single threaded programming, which is very memory efficient, but to take advantage of computers multi-core systems, 
the Cluster module allows you to easily create child processes that each runs on their own single thread, to handle the load.

15)How does your Node.js application handle scale? Elaborate
The easiest thing to do to scale a big application is to clone it multiple times and have each cloned instance handle part of the workload (with a load balancer, for example). 
This does not cost a lot in term of development time and it's highly effective. This strategy is the minimum you should do and Node.

16)What is the difference between readFile and readFileSync?
readFileSync() is synchronous and blocks execution until finished. These return their results as return values. 
readFile() are asynchronous and return immediately while they function in the background. You pass a callback function which gets called when they finish.

17)What are CORS? How do you configure them? Why do you need them?
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is an HTTP-header based mechanism that allows a server to indicate 
any origins (domain, scheme, or port) other than its own from which a browser should permit loading resources.
...
One of the allowed methods:
GET.
HEAD.
POST.

18)What is rate limiting?
A rate limit is the maximum number of calls you want to allow in a particular time interval. 
Setting rate limits enables you to manage the network traffic for your APIs and for specific operations within your APIs. 
API Connect supports two types of rate limiting: Rate limit.


19)How does middlewares work in express?
Middleware functions are functions that have access to the request object ( req ), the response object ( res ), 
and the next function in the application's request-response cycle. 
The next function is a function in the Express router which, when invoked, executes the middleware succeeding the current middleware.


20)What is the difference between Encryption and Hashing?
Since encryption is two-way, the data can be decrypted so it is readable again.
 Hashing, on the other hand, is one-way, meaning the plaintext is scrambled into a unique digest, through the use of a salt, that cannot be decrypted.


 21)What is the difference between https and http?
HTTPS is HTTP with encryption. The only difference between the two protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses.
 As a result, HTTPS is far more secure than HTTP. A website that uses HTTP has http:// in its URL, while a website that uses HTTPS has https://.


 22)What is TLS?
TLS Basics-- Transport Layer Security (TLS) encrypts data sent over the Internet to ensure that eavesdroppers and 
hackers are unable to see what you transmit which is particularly useful for private and sensitive information 
such as passwords, credit card numbers, and personal correspondence


23)What is AES?
The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a symmetric block cipher chosen by the U.S. government to protect classified information. 
AES is implemented in software and hardware throughout the world to encrypt sensitive data.
 It is essential for government computer security, cybersecurity and electronic data protection.

 24)What is JWT Token? Why do we need to use JWT? What are some pros and cons?
 It is a definitely a clever way to securely get the identity of the client.
  In simple language there is a secret Key used to encrypt the JSON formatted Data which primarily includes the user-id. 
  Now an encryption of data with the Key generates the token that is sent to the client and used in every request.

25)What is salting? Where do we store salt?
A salt is a random string that makes the hash unpredictable. Bcrypt is a popular and trusted method for salt and hashing passwords. 
You have learned how to use bcrypt's NodeJS library to salt and hash a password before storing it in a database

The easiest way is to put the salt in front of the password and hash the combined text string. 
The salt is not an encryption key, so it can be stored in the password database along with the 
username – it serves merely to prevent two users with the same password getting the same hash

26)What is the difference between authorisation and Authentication?
 Simply put, authentication is the process of verifying who someone is, 
 whereas authorization is the process of verifying what specific applications, files, and data a user has access to.


 27)What is the difference between JS on the browser and node?
Unlike the browser where Javascript is sandboxed for your safety, node. js has full access to the system like any other native application.
 This means you can read and write directly to/from the file system, have unrestricted access to the network, can execute software and more

 28)What is V8?
V8 is the name of the JavaScript engine that powers Google Chrome. 
It's the thing that takes our JavaScript and executes it while browsing with Chrome. 
V8 provides the runtime environment in which JavaScript executes. 
The DOM, and the other Web Platform APIs are provided by the browser.